6DOF Stewart Platform Calculator (for linear actuators)

Unzip the file c into a new directory, this will setup all the required files and subdirectories. It will not create anything outside these directories.

Run the file "StewartPlatformCalculator.exe"

The top half of the screen is the platform setup data and calcs arranged over 3 tabs - Machine data, Leg positions and Actuator loads.

The bottom half of the screen is the visualiser and data arranged over 3 tabs - Joystick RK, Slider Rk and sequencer.

On the left side half way down is a button "ShowVisualiser" that pops up a graphical display. It's controls are - left mouse = pan, right mouse = rotate, mouse wheel = zoom. Color coding is - red lines base, blue lines platform, green lines legs, white lines are base/platform joints J1-J2, mauve line is leg 1.


Typical useage:

Enter a project name in top left box, use save project and load project as required.

Enter machine dimensions top left box, everything updates automatically as data is entered. Check the "Optimum platform Z rest height" box, this is the calculated best rest/home position, if ok click the "Make default" button and everything updates around that new setting.

Review the "Single axis ranges from rest posn" box - this shows how far the platform can move in a single axis. If you wish you can click the "Copy to action ranges" button and it will copy these setting to the visualiser on the lower half of the screen.

Click the "Actuator loads" tab on the bottom edge of the top screen then enter your actuator information, again all date updates as you enter new settings.

Enter your prefered axis ranges into the "Action ranges from rest posn" box lower left screen (or copy from calculated ranges as above).

Use one of the visualiser options, Joystick RK, Slider Rk or sequencer to move the model about, click the "ShowVisualiser" to see it.

As you move the model all the data boxes will update with current info, generally those concerning leg length will be green if leg is within operating range, red if outside.

Click the "Print parameters" button to get a hard copy - remember to click "Save Project" button to save your settings !


Happy playtime !
 